Hello everyone! In this tutorial we will add minimal input to our character from the keyboard.
We will teach him to move around the stage: forward, backward, right, left.
First, let's set the mapping to the keys that we will control our character with.
To do this, open the project settings and go to the input category.
Mapping takes place in the bindings tab. For those who have not looked at the previous section, let me remind you that binding in unreal
can be of two types: action and axis mapping. Action mapping is a discrete mapping,
that is, we receive an event one-time: a button is pressed or released. This type of mapping is
great for character actions such as jumping, reloading weapons, changing weapons, and so on.
And with axis mapping, the values ​​from the control come constantly, so each frame
we have the value of the control we are interested in. For example, if this is a button, then 0 or 1.
And in the callback axis mapping, we can continuously process this value.
We want our character to keep moving when the corresponding keys are held down.
Therefore, we will use axis mapping to handle the motion. Press the + button.
Let's name our first mapping - it will move forward, so let's call it MoveForward.
We add keys that will be associated with this mapping - this will be an up arrow - up
Several controls can correspond to one mapping, so we can add an additional key - w
and a function that we will bind to this mapping - MoveForward
will be called as when clicking on up key and pressing the w key
To handle backward movement, we can also use MoveForward. An
additional parameter, which is on the right, will help us with this , it is called scale.
This variable scale will be multiplied by the final value of the key state.
Therefore, we also add the down button - the down arrow to the mapping MoveForward and change the scale to -1
And, similarly to the down button, add the s
scale = -1 button .
The next mapping is responsible for moving to the right and to the left. We call it MoveRight.
Add a right button to it - an arrow to the right.
Left button - the left arrow will go with scale = -1
And duplicate the input to the right-left using the letter keys: D - move to the right
and A - move to the left, scale = -1
We are done with mapping, go to visual studio. Let's program all this now.
Controlling the behavior of the character depending on the input can be configured both in the controller
and in the character. The controller has a pointer to the pawn that it controls, so in general the input
can be passed to the pawn through the controller. We'll start with character, set up a basic input in it.
But in the future, we will also use the controller for various non-game events.
For example, for such as calling a pause in the game, or exiting the game. We create a private section in the header file of our actor.
and declare two functions that will be called when our keys are pressed.
The first function is MoveForward. The function will have one parameter. This parameter will transmit the state of the button.
In our specific case, the value will be 0 if the keys are not pressed, 1 if the forward key is pressed, or w
and -1 if S is pressed, or the back arrow.
We declare the second function MoveRight - this function will be responsible for moving left and right.
We create the body of each function in a .cpp file.
To do this, right-click on the functions, select quick actions and refactoring, create declaration / definition
Go to the BaseCharacter .cpp file. Our current task is to connect the MoveForward and MoveRight functions with the mapping that we set in editor
through the player inpur component .
First, let's include the header file "Components / InputComponent.h" otherwise Visual Studio
may underline with a red wavy line, because it does not see the definition of the input component.
The component input function, which is responsible for the bind we need, is called BindAxis.
This function takes three arguments: the first argument is the name of our mapping - MoveForward, the
second argument is a pointer to the object whose function will be called. We will call it
on character, so we specify this, the last parameter is a link to the function that will be
called every frame with the current state of our button - we pass MoveForward there.
We copy this line. MoveRight will be handled the same way, so just change the mapping to MoveRight
and the function to MoveRight too.
Let's go inside the MoveForward function. To move the character, we will use the AddMovementInput function.
This function exists for every pawn: the first function argument is the direction along which we
want to move our character. The most commonly used unit vector is a unit vector.
We want to move our character in the direction he is currently facing. To do this, we will
use the function that each actor has, it is called GetForwardVector
Moreover, the actor has its own local coordinate system. Besides the forward vector, it also
has a right vector and an up vector. All these vectors can be obtained through the corresponding getters:
GetActorRightVector, GetActorUpVactor. The next parameter is scale - the number by which our direction vector
will be multiplied coordinatewise. We pass there the value of the button state - a
parameter that comes to us in the callback Amount. In our case, this value will be either 0, or 1, or -1
If we press f12 on AddMovementInput, fall inside, we will see that this function is a pawn function
and is essentially a wrapper over the AddInputVector function, the movement component function.
Our direction vector is multiplied by the scale value and passed as an argument to this function,
in which the very logic of the character's movement is carried out, that is, changing the coordinate in the 3d scene.
In the same way, we will shift our character to the right and left. We use the AddMovementInput function
Only now we will pass the right vector with you as a direction - we will call the GetActorRightVector function
And as the scale parameter we also pass Amount, that is, if we move to the right, then the vector is multiplied by 1,
if to the left, then by -1, and if the keys then released to 0
Run editor. Checking what we have done.
Click Play.
We check the arrows: back, right, left, forward. Everything works.
We also check that the w, a, s, d keys work for us.
The character also moves correctly in our 3d space.